# Linked Hypernyms Dataset (LHD)
This Linked Hypernym dataset attaches entity articles in English, German and Dutch Wikipedia with a DBpedia resource or a DBpedia ontology concept as their type. The types are hypernyms mined from articles' free text using hand-crafted lexicosyntactic patterns.

Shortly, the dataset provides more complete `rdf:type` based on the Wikipedia abstracts.

## Languages supported
* English
* German 
* Dutch

## Datasets description

### Core dataset
This file contains reliable triples with DBpedia Ontology types. These were obtained by linking hypernyms parsed from the first sentence of the article to the DBpedia Ontology by strict match.

`linked-hypernyms_type=core_lang={lang}.nt.gz`

### Inference dataset
This file contains less reliable triples with DBpedia Ontology types. This file was generated by our STI algorithm, which used as input i) the hypernym from the first sentence. It is analogous with the DBpedia Heuristics dataset, however due to different source data (article text vs links in Heuristics), the overlap with the Heuristics dataset is small.

`linked-hypernyms_type=inference_lang={lang}.nt.gz`

### Extension dataset
This file contains triples with DBpedia Resource types. It covers the same set of instances as Core+Inference dataset, the difference is that no mapping to DBpedia Ontology was performed, the types are in the dbpedia/resource namespace, which ensures highest specificity of the types.

`linked-hypernyms_type=extension_lang={lang}.nt.gz`

### Raw "Plain text" dataset
This file contains hypernyms in a plain text form as they were obtained by the pattern matching component.

`linked-hypernyms_type=raw_lang={lang}.nt.gz`

## Official website

[https://ner.vse.cz/datasets/linkedhypernyms/](https://ner.vse.cz/datasets/linkedhypernyms/)

